README.md, before:

## Terraform website/application, built on top of a custom AMI
This repository can be used to
  1. Build the AWS infrastructure with Terraform (see Terraform section)
  2. Build a custom AMI containing a Docker container with Packer, provisioned by Ansible and tested with Serverspec.

## Packer
Packer is used to build a custom AMI, test it with Serverspec, and upload it to AWS (S3) if the tests are successful.

#### What is being built
A custom Docker image is being built by the Packer script, on top of a CentOS image. It only consists of a [index.html](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/roles/website/files/public/index.html) which is exposed through port [`8080`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/roles/website/files/Dockerfile) using a [Node.js](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/roles/website/files/server.js) server.

#### How to
  - Complete the file `packer/variables.json`
  - Reference your AWS profile in the Packer [`template.json`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/template.json#L16)
  - `packer build -var-file=variables.json template.json | tee build.log`

#### Testing
  - [Serverspec](https://serverspec.org/) is used to test the AMI before pushing it to AWS. The tests are defined in the `serverspec.sh` [script](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/scripts/serverspec.sh). During the build of the AMI, the logs are ouptuted in a `build.log` file. This file is used to grep the IP of the AMI being build and execute tests against it. Once the tests are done, I grepped for the results and check if no errors have been detected (`egrep ' [^1-9] failures' build.log`). If that is the case, the command will exit with `-1`, making the script fails, hence not pushing the AMI to S3. <br/>
  - A [`Vagrantfile`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/Vagrantfile) is provided and can be used to locally test the Ansible playbook. To test it, just issue `vagrant up --provision`.

## Terraform
#### Architecture
  - 1 VPC (`10.0.0.0/24`)
  - 2 Subnets within this VPC (`10.0.0.0/25` and `10.0.0.128/25`)
  - 1 Internet Gateway for the VPC
  - 2 Route Tables for the 2 Subnets associated to the Internet Gateway
  - 1 Security Group applied to the VPC
  - 1 Auto Scaling Group (2 instances in 2 AZs)
  - 1 Elastic Load Balancer

#### How to
- Check the plan: `terraform plan`
- Apply it: `terraform apply`
- Destroy the infrastructure: `terraform destroy`

### Notes
  - The Ansible playbook should be completely separated from the Packer script, as these two should not be correlated. A good solution would be to upload the playbook to S3, and then download it with Packer.
  - When playing around, make sure you destroyed the snapshots linked to the AMI, as well as the EBS volumes built with Packer.

### Requirements
  - AWS account
  - packer >= 1.2.1
  - vagrant >= 2.0.3
  - docker >= 18.06.0-ce
  - terraform >= 0.11.7
  - gem >= 2.5.2.3

### Acknowledgements
  - Anna Kennedy for her great [article](http://annaken.github.io/testing-packer-builds-with-serverspec) on testing an AMI with Packer.

Commit message:

Mention execute.sh in the docs

README.md, after:

## Terraform website/application, built on top of a custom AMI
This repository can be used to
  1. Build the AWS infrastructure with Terraform (see Terraform section)
  2. Build a custom AMI containing a Docker container with Packer, provisioned by Ansible and tested with Serverspec.

## Packer
Packer is used to build a custom AMI, test it with Serverspec, and upload it to AWS (S3) if the tests are successful.

#### What is built
A custom Docker image is being built by the Packer script, on top of a CentOS image. It only consists of a [index.html](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/roles/website/files/public/index.html) which is exposed through port [`8080`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/roles/website/files/Dockerfile) using a [Node.js](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/roles/website/files/server.js) server.

#### How to
  - Complete the file `packer/variables.json`
  - Reference your AWS profile in the Packer [`template.json`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/template.json#L16)
  - `packer build -var-file=variables.json template.json | tee build.log`

#### Testing
  - [Serverspec](https://serverspec.org/) is used to test the AMI before pushing it to AWS. The tests are defined in the `serverspec.sh` [script](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/scripts/serverspec.sh). During the build of the AMI, the logs are ouptuted in a `build.log` file. This file is used to grep the IP of the AMI being build and execute tests against it. Once the tests are done, I grepped for the results and check if no errors have been detected (`egrep ' [^1-9] failures' build.log`). If that is the case, the command will exit with `-1`, making the script fails, hence not pushing the AMI to S3. <br/>
  - A [`Vagrantfile`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/packer/ansible_roles/Vagrantfile) is provided and can be used to locally test the Ansible playbook. To test it, just issue `vagrant up --provision`.

## Terraform
#### Architecture
  - 1 VPC (`10.0.0.0/24`)
  - 2 Subnets within this VPC (`10.0.0.0/25` and `10.0.0.128/25`)
  - 1 Internet Gateway for the VPC
  - 2 Route Tables for the 2 Subnets associated to the Internet Gateway
  - 1 Security Group applied to the VPC
  - 1 Auto Scaling Group (2 instances in 2 AZs)
  - 1 Elastic Load Balancer

#### How to
- Change/adapt the `variables.tf` [file](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/terraform/variables.tf).
- Check the plan: `terraform plan`
- Apply it: `terraform apply`
- Destroy the infrastructure: `terraform destroy`

### Notes
  - The Ansible playbook should be completely separated from the Packer script, as these two should not be correlated. A good solution would be to upload the playbook to S3, and then download it with Packer.
  - When playing around, make sure you destroyed the snapshots linked to the AMI, as well as the EBS volumes built with Packer.
  - [`execute.sh`](https://github.com/Mornor/terraform-website/blob/master/execute.sh) could be used to execute both the Packer script and the Terraform template, but was not tested.

### Requirements
  - AWS account
  - packer >= 1.2.1
  - vagrant >= 2.0.3
  - docker >= 18.06.0-ce
  - terraform >= 0.11.7
  - gem >= 2.5.2.3

### Acknowledgements
  - Anna Kennedy for her great [article](http://annaken.github.io/testing-packer-builds-with-serverspec) on testing an AMI with Packer.
